Hi everyone!
Today we will start learning a new section Control Flow Conditional Blocks.
We will start by learning the if Elif and else statements.
Python supports the usual logical conditional from mathematics like we see in the previous video Python
comparison operator.
We have equal not equal, greater than, less than, greater than or equal to and less than or equal
to.
This condition can be used in several ways, most commonly in if statements and loops.
If statement in if statement is written by using the if keyword.
The if statement without indentation will raise an error.
Here an example.
If B is greater than a print, B is greater than a.
The Elif statement keyword in Python way of saying if the previous condition were not true.
Then try this condition here, for example.
B is not greater than A.
The first condition is false.
We will pass to the second condition with the Elif statement.
The else keyword catches anything which isn't catched by the preceding condition.
Here the first condition will return false, the second will return false, and in this case we will
execute the else condition.
Let's do some examples.
Section seven.
Conditional and if statement.
Here the first part.
The if statement.
Let's execute this code.
The result B is greater than a.
This expression returns true because b 200 is greater than than a.
Just be sure that in if statement without indentation will raise an error.
We can verify that this is an if statement without indentation.
Here we have indent expected in the line 18.
In if statement without indentation will raise an error.
In the second example, we will see the Elif statement.
If the first expression return false, we will pass to the Elif statement.
Elif statement A and B are equal.
The first statement return false and we will pass to Elif statement.
The else statement.
It will be the last statement.
If the the previous expression return false, we will pass to the else statement, like in this case.
A is greater than B because we have the first expression return false, the second return false, and.
The else statement will be executed.
You can also have an else with that the Elif statement.
Like in this example, if p is greater than a execute print, B is greater than A else print B is not
greater than a.
I execute the code.
The result being is is not greater than a.
We can have only if statement we can have if and Elif statement we can have if Elif and else statement
and also we can have just if and else statement.